Add docs for permissions that installing and running ECK requires (#4860)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/operating-eck/eck-permissions.asciidoc

:page_id: eck-permissions
ifdef::env-github[]
****
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-{page_id}.html[View this document on the Elastic website]
****
endif::[]

[id="{p}-{page_id}"]

> = ECK permissions

Reviewer: Should we be more explicit in the title? Something like: "Required RBAC permissions"

> Installing and running ECK, as well as using ECK-managed resources requires certain Kubernetes link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac[permissions]. Each of those permissions is listed below, together with a reason why it is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing and running ECK, as well as using ECK-managed resources requires certain Kubernetes link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac[permissions]. These permissions are listed below, with a reason why they are needed.
```

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-defaults"]
== Installing CRDs

> Below is the permission required to install CRDs. CRDs (link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/[CustomResourceDefinitions]) are the only non-namespaced resources required to be installed.

Reviewer 3: `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` is also a non-namespaced resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This permission is required to install CRDs. CRDs (link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/[CustomResourceDefinitions]) are the only non-namespaced resources required to be installed.
```

Author: > `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` is also a non-namespaced resource.

Yes, but it's optional. I want to emphasise here that out of all resources that ECK has to have to run, this is the only one that is non-namespaced.

Reviewer 3: > Yes, but it's optional. I want to emphasise here that out of all resources that ECK has to have to run, this is the only one that is non-namespaced.

I think I have been confused by the fact that the `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` appears later in a list of "permissions required to install ECK operator in a Kubernetes cluster". Should we then make it explicit that it is not the case for the `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` ?

Author: Not sure if I understand what exactly you are suggesting. `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` has `yes` in the `Optional?` column which I think already achieves that. Did you mean something else?

Reviewer 3: My bad, I guess I focused on the "permissions required" in the first sentence, while there is indeed an "optional" column.

[width="100%",cols=".^35m,.^25m,.^5d,.^35",options="header"]
|===
|Name|API group|Optional?|Usage
|CustomResourceDefinition|apiextensions.k8s.io|no|Extend Kubernetes APIs with Elastic Stack applications resources
|===

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-installing"]
== Installing the ECK operator

> Below are the permissions required to install ECK operator in a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the permissions required to install the ECK operator in a Kubernetes cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These permissions are required to install ECK operator in a Kubernetes cluster.
```

[width="100%",cols=".^1m,.^1m,.^1d,.^97",options="header"]
|===
|Name|API group|Optional?|Usage

> |StatefulSet or Deployment|apps|no|ECK operator `Pod` deployment method. By default, `Deployment` is used only in OpenShift.

Reviewer: deployment is a bit overloaded here. Also the  `Deployment`  is not restricted to OCP but all installations that are using OLM. Maybe simply: "The ECK operator can be either deployed as a StatefulSet or as a Deployment"

|ServiceAccount|core|no|Service account that the operator Pods run as

> |Role or ClusterRole|rbac.authorization.k8s.io|no|Role bound to the operators Service account. Depending on the installation type (global/restricted) either global (ClusterRole) or namespaced (Role) resource is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Role or ClusterRole|rbac.authorization.k8s.io|no|Role bound to the operators Service account. Depending on the installation type (global/restricted) either a global (ClusterRole) or a namespaced (Role) resource is needed.
```

> |RoleBinding or ClusterRoleBinding|rbac.authorization.k8s.io|no|Binding between the operators role and the operators service account. Depending on installation type (global/restricted) either global (ClusterRoleBinding) or namespaced (RoleBinding) resource is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|RoleBinding or ClusterRoleBinding|rbac.authorization.k8s.io|no|Binding between the operators role and the operators service account. Depending on the installation type (global/restricted), either global (ClusterRoleBinding) or namespaced (RoleBinding) resource is needed.
```

|ConfigMap|core|yes|Configuration parameters of the Operator. They can be specified directly in the StatefulSet (or Deployment) resource instead.

> |Namespace|core|yes|Namespace where the Operator will run. It can be a pre-existing namespace as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Namespace|core|yes|Namespace where the operator will run. It can be a pre-existing namespace as well.
```

> |ValidatingWebhookConfiguration|admissionregistration.k8s.io|yes|Validating webhook installation. It provides fast feedback for the user directly as a APIServer response. Very similar set of validations is done by the operator itself, but the results are only available through operator logs. See link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-webhook.html[docs] for more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ValidatingWebhookConfiguration|admissionregistration.k8s.io|yes|Validating webhook installation. It provides fast feedback for the user directly as a APIServer response. A subset of these validations is also run by the operator itself, but the results are only available through operator logs and Kubernetes events. See link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-webhook.html[docs] for more.
```

> |Secret|core|yes|Secret containing validating webhooks endpoint CA certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Secret|core|yes|Secret containing the validating webhook's endpoint CA certificate
```

|Service|core|yes|Service for validating webhook endpoint
|===

And all permissions that <<{p}-{page_id}-running>> section specifies.

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-running"]
== Running ECK operator

> Below are the permissions that are needed by the Service Account that ECK Operator runs as.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the permissions that are needed by the Service Account that ECK operator runs as.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These permissions are needed by the Service Account that ECK Operator runs as.
```

[width="100%",cols=".^1m,.^1m,.^1d,.^97",options="header"]
|===
|Name|API group|Optional?|Usage

> |Pod||no|Assuring expected Pods presence during Elasticsearch reconciliation +

Reviewer: Maybe just: The operator needs to list, get and delete Pods during Elasticsearch reconciliation?

Author: I wanted to go one level deeper with those descriptions and inform why exactly we need those. It's not obvious given that we operate on StatefulSets, Deployment and DaemonSet. What verbs are needed for which resources is something that is already there in Role spec, but what they are used for is what I think we are missing right now.

Reviewer: Yeah that's fine, I was just struggling with the wording a bit. Also you only mention "assuring presence" but we also actively delete Pods.

Author: Sound good. Gets (lists) and creates are explained, I've added deletes as well.

> Validating `podTemplate` by dry-run creating the Pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validating `podTemplate` by dry-run creation of Pods
```
not sure if that's better 🤷

> |Endpoint||no|Checking availability of service endpoints

Reviewer: There is some punctuation inconsistency here and in other places. 
```suggestion
|Endpoint||no|Checking availability of service endpoints.
```

|Event||no|Emitting events concerning reconciliation progress and issues
|PersistentVolumeClaim||no|Expanding existing volumes. See link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-volume-claim-templates.html#k8s_updating_the_volume_claim_settings[docs] to learn more.

> |Secret||no|Reading/writing configurations, passwords, certificates, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Secret||no|Reading/writing configuration, passwords, certificates, etc.
```

|Service||no|Creating Services fronting Elastic Stack applications

> |ConfigMap||no|Reading/writing configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ConfigMap||no|Reading/writing configuration.
```

|StatefulSet|apps|no|Deploying Elasticsearch
|Deployment|apps|no|Deploying Kibana, APM Server, EnterpriseSearch, Maps, Beats, Agent

> |DaemonSet|apps|no|Deploying Beats, Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|DaemonSet|apps|no|Deploying Beats or Elastic Agent
```

|PodDisruptionBudget|policy|no|Ensuring update safety for Elasticsearch. See link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-pod-disruption-budget.html[docs] to learn more.
|StorageClass|storage.k8s.io|yes|Validating storage expansion support. See link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-volume-claim-templates.html#k8s_updating_the_volume_claim_settings[docs] to learn more.
|coreauthorization.k8s.io|SubjectAccessReview|yes|Controlling access between referenced resources. See link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-restrict-cross-namespace-associations.html[docs] to learn more.

> |===

Reviewer 2: Replace "See" with "Check"
=> Accessibility issue

> And all permissions that <<{p}-{page_id}-using>> chapter specifies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And all permissions that the <<{p}-{page_id}-using>> chapter specifies.
```

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-using"]
== Using ECK-managed resources

> Below are the permissions that are needed to manage each Elastic Stack application. For example, to be able to create, update and delete Elasticsearch clusters the permissions for respective verbs are required to be held by the user performing the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the permissions that are needed to manage each Elastic Stack application. For example, to be able to create, update and delete Elasticsearch clusters the permissions for the respective verbs are required to be held by the user performing the operation.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These permissions are needed to manage each Elastic Stack application. For example, to create, update and delete Elasticsearch clusters the permissions for respective verbs must be held by the user that performs the operation.
```
